+++
title = "2023 Robotics #1"
description = "Term 1 Week 3 - 16th February 2023"
date = "2023-02-16"
+++

## Notices

* {{biglink(
  emoji = "📜"
  name = "Club Permission Note 2023"
  href = "/doc/club-permission-note-2023.pdf"
)}}

## Overview

An official welcome to robotics (proper) for 2023! Today was mostly housekeeping, but also a time to think ahead to potential projects for this year and onwards.

This year presents a number of exciting opportunities. First, an increase in the membership of the club means a larger pool of shared knowledge, of skills and of passion for [learning, exploring and making](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maker_culture). Second, there is the club website `spxrobots.org` that you're on right now! Third, this year is also the first year since 2020 that we have continuing year 6s taking the step into senior robotics.

### Business

* Roll and permission notes.
* Year 7 and Senior Introduction
* Project Time

### Drone Delivery Robots

Resources will be provided to two teams this year to work on a drink-can delivery flying robot. The vechicles should be capable of collecting and delivering a can of soft-drink. Bonus points for self-flying!

### RoboCup Launch

At the end of last week [RCJA](https://www.robocupjunior.org.au) launched the 2023 competition.

More information can be viewed on the [RoboCup Programme Page](/prog/robocup2023).

### RoboCup Teams

Our goal for this year is to have two Senior entries for the [RoboCup Junior Australia](/prog/robocup) competition this year in any of the [soccer](/wiki/soccer) categories.

We will also run an internal Standard Soccer competition for Year 7, and potentially enter teams for the RCJA competition as well.

## Open Day Preparations

Open Day is on Saturday 18th March. Robotics, as always, will be the star attraction. Work is being done over the coming weeks to showcase the work of the club.

Those working on the LEGO displays are preparing demos for the [classic robotics challenges](/wiki/challenges): Escape the Egg, Line Following and the Driving Challenge, and additionally a Ball Chaser.


* RoboCup Junior Competition (EV3, Python, Arduino)
* SpikePrime Competition Launch

## The `spxrobots.org` Website

This week sees the first blog entry for the Robotics Club website. The website is a tool to better preserve and pass down in the long-term the knowledge and skills of members of the club. It also functions as a hub for competition and project news and resources for all members.

The website features a wiki, containing itemised entries of noteworthy topics in robotics.

### Team Project Blog Entries

In the near future, teams will provide weekly short write-ups to demonstrate their weekly progress of the work they have done to further their skills, projects, knowledge and/or the club.
